README.md, before:

# Java Demo App

## The App

This is a simple Sales Manager Java App that stores sales items in a table presented in a web app.

This demo repo is designed to help understand some of **CI/CD** ([Continuous Integration](https://docs.github.com/en/enterprise-cloud@latest/actions/automating-builds-and-tests/about-continuous-integration)/[Continuous Delivery](https://docs.github.com/en/enterprise-cloud@latest/actions/deployment/about-deployments/about-continuous-deployment)) principles and best practices.

## The Setting

**Java** (Spring Boot framework) with **MVC** (Model View Controller) and **OOP** (Object Oriented Programming) design patterns.
Backend Database is Oracle XE 11g PDB (but can be used with other versions).
 
 *CI/CD Pipeline*
 [GitHub Actions](https://docs.github.com/en/enterprise-cloud@latest/actions) as the main CI/CD pipeline orchestrator

**Tools used to optimize the pipeline (See the `.github/workflows/ci.yml` for more detailed configuration).**
 - [Caching Dependencies to Speed Up Workflows](https://docs.github.com/en/enterprise-cloud@latest/actions/using-workflows/caching-dependencies-to-speed-up-workflows)
 - Reusing **Docker Layer Caching** from pervious docker builds with [action-docker-layer-caching](https://github.com/satackey/action-docker-layer-caching) or [build-push-action](https://github.com/docker/build-push-action) actions.
 - Using the [Metrix Strategy](https://docs.github.com/en/enterprise-cloud@latest/actions/using-jobs/using-a-matrix-for-your-jobs) to run unit tests in parallel to scale-out resources and reduce significant testing time.
 - Using the [Split Test Action](https://github.com/marketplace/actions/split-tests) to help splitting tests by previous testing time runs or line count (or other strategies) across multiple runners.
 - [GitHub Advanced Security](https://docs.github.com/en/enterprise-cloud@latest/get-started/learning-about-github/about-github-advanced-security) - Code Scanning using the [CodeQL analysis](https://docs.github.com/en/code-security/code-scanning/automatically-scanning-your-code-for-vulnerabilities-and-errors/configuring-the-codeql-workflow-for-compiled-languages) to scan for vulnerabilities.
 - [Liquibase Quality Checks](https://www.liquibase.com/quality-checks) - To help enforce Database schema changes best practices set by your DBA team, including naming conventions, grants & revokes, rollback scripts and security risks.
              
# CI/CD Diagram
```mermaid
stateDiagram
    state Developer-Workflow {
    Commits --> PR: Developers Commit new changes in a Pull Request
    PR --> Build: Security Scans, Build & Unit Test Suite
    }
    
    state Continuous-Integration {
        state GitHub-Advanced-Security {
        Build --> PR: Feedback of failed tests - back to dev
        Build --> JunitTests: Storing Artifacts
        JunitTests --> Publish: If CI passes, \nmerging to main branch \nand publishing Containerised\n App to GitHub\n Container Registry
        state Parallel-Testing {
        JunitTests --> JunitTest1: Each test runs in \na containerized environment
        JunitTests --> JunitTest2
        JunitTests --> JunitTest3
        JunitTests --> JunitTest4
        JunitTests --> JunitTest5
        JunitTests --> JunitTest..N
        }
      }
    }

    state Continuous-Delivery {
    Publish --> PreProdTests: Pulling Image from GHDR
    PreProdTests --> Deploy: Deploy the app to K8s
    }
```

## Building and Testing
[Maven](https://maven.apache.org/) is used as the project management for Building and Testing the application.
To build the application, you can run:
```
mvn clean package
```
It will generate a JAR file in the `target` folder with the following format `salesmanager-x.x.x-SNAPSHOT.jar`. </br>
To run the application, you can deploy the JAR file. For example:
```
java -jar target/salesmanager-0.0.6-SNAPSHOT.jar
```

# How to Demo
For easy demos without the need to stand up an Oracle database, an lightweight local [H2 database](https://www.h2database.com/html/main.html) (Oracle Mode) is setup by default in the `src/main/resources/application.properties` file. </br>
You can run the `./build_and_run_app.sh` helper shell script and interact with the web app on `localhost:8086`.
> You can easily use a [GitHub codespaces](https://docs.github.com/en/enterprise-cloud@latest/codespaces) with this repository. To set up your codespace, simply go to this repo [main page](https://github.com/octodemo/java-springboot-demo) --> Click **Code** --> Codespaces '+'. </br>


# Running the CI workflow
1. In order to run the workflow, you will need to [fork](https://docs.github.com/en/enterprise-cloud@latest/get-started/quickstart/fork-a-repo) this repo. </br>
2. Then, make sure to save the following environment variables in your repository secrets so you can successfully run the Database schema mirgations scripts (using [Liquibase](https://www.liquibase.com/) as the schema migration tool) on application startup and when running the tests. </br>

**Repository Secrets**
`LIQUIBASE_COMMAND_URL`
`LIQUIBASE_COMMAND_USERNAME`
`LIQUIBASE_COMMAND_PASSWORD`

### If you are going to use the same [dockerised service container](https://hub.docker.com/r/gvenzl/oracle-xe) in the CI job for dev, then the default values should be: </br>
`LIQUIBASE_COMMAND_URL` = `jdbc:oracle:thin:@oracle:1521/xe` </br>
`LIQUIBASE_COMMAND_USERNAME` = `SYSTEM` </br>
`LIQUIBASE_COMMAND_PASSWORD` = `ORACLE`

# Gitgraph Diagram - Developer Workflow
```mermaid
%%{init: { 'logLevel': 'debug', 'theme': 'base', 'gitGraph': {'showBranches': true}} }%%
      gitGraph
        commit
        branch hotfix
        checkout hotfix
        commit
        branch develop
        checkout develop
        commit id:"ash" tag:"abc"
        branch featureB
        checkout featureB
        commit type:HIGHLIGHT
        checkout main
        checkout hotfix
        commit type:NORMAL
        checkout develop
        commit type:REVERSE
        checkout featureB
        commit
        checkout main
        merge hotfix
        checkout featureB
        commit
        checkout develop
        branch featureA
        commit
        checkout develop
        merge hotfix
        checkout featureA
        commit
        checkout featureB
        commit
        checkout develop
        merge featureA
        branch release
        checkout release
        commit
        checkout main
        commit
        checkout release
        merge main
        checkout develop
        merge release
```

Commit message:

Update README.md with deploy steps diagram

README.md, after:

# Java Demo App

## The App

This is a simple Sales Manager Java App that stores sales items in a table presented in a web app.

This demo repo is designed to help understand some of **CI/CD** ([Continuous Integration](https://docs.github.com/en/enterprise-cloud@latest/actions/automating-builds-and-tests/about-continuous-integration)/[Continuous Delivery](https://docs.github.com/en/enterprise-cloud@latest/actions/deployment/about-deployments/about-continuous-deployment)) principles and best practices.

## The Setting

**Java** (Spring Boot framework) with **MVC** (Model View Controller) and **OOP** (Object Oriented Programming) design patterns.
Backend Database is Oracle XE 11g PDB (but can be used with other versions).
 
 *CI/CD Pipeline*
 [GitHub Actions](https://docs.github.com/en/enterprise-cloud@latest/actions) as the main CI/CD pipeline orchestrator

**Tools used to optimize the pipeline (See the `.github/workflows/ci.yml` for more detailed configuration).**
 - [Caching Dependencies to Speed Up Workflows](https://docs.github.com/en/enterprise-cloud@latest/actions/using-workflows/caching-dependencies-to-speed-up-workflows)
 - Reusing **Docker Layer Caching** from pervious docker builds with [action-docker-layer-caching](https://github.com/satackey/action-docker-layer-caching) or [build-push-action](https://github.com/docker/build-push-action) actions.
 - Using the [Metrix Strategy](https://docs.github.com/en/enterprise-cloud@latest/actions/using-jobs/using-a-matrix-for-your-jobs) to run unit tests in parallel to scale-out resources and reduce significant testing time.
 - Using the [Split Test Action](https://github.com/marketplace/actions/split-tests) to help splitting tests by previous testing time runs or line count (or other strategies) across multiple runners.
 - [GitHub Advanced Security](https://docs.github.com/en/enterprise-cloud@latest/get-started/learning-about-github/about-github-advanced-security) - Code Scanning using the [CodeQL analysis](https://docs.github.com/en/code-security/code-scanning/automatically-scanning-your-code-for-vulnerabilities-and-errors/configuring-the-codeql-workflow-for-compiled-languages) to scan for vulnerabilities.
 - [Liquibase Quality Checks](https://www.liquibase.com/quality-checks) - To help enforce Database schema changes best practices set by your DBA team, including naming conventions, grants & revokes, rollback scripts and security risks.
              
# CI/CD Diagram
```mermaid
stateDiagram
    state Developer-Workflow {
    Commits --> PR: Developers Commit new changes in a Pull Request
    PR --> Build: Security Scans, Build & Unit Test Suite
    }
    
    state Continuous-Integration {
        state GitHub-Advanced-Security {
        Build --> PR: Feedback of failed tests - back to dev
        Build --> JunitTests: Storing Artifacts
        JunitTests --> Publish: If CI passes, \nmerging to main branch \nand publishing Containerised\n App to GitHub\n Container Registry
        state Parallel-Testing {
        JunitTests --> JunitTest1: Each test runs in \na containerized environment
        JunitTests --> JunitTest2
        JunitTests --> JunitTest3
        JunitTests --> JunitTest4
        JunitTests --> JunitTest5
        JunitTests --> JunitTest..N
        }
      }
    }

    state Continuous-Delivery {
    Publish --> SystemTesting: Pulling Image from GHDR
    SystemTesting --> IntegrationTesting
    IntegrationTesting --> AccepetanceTesting
    }
    AccepetanceTesting --> Deploy: Login with OpenID Connect and \nDeploy the app to K8s
```

## Building and Testing
[Maven](https://maven.apache.org/) is used as the project management for Building and Testing the application.
To build the application, you can run:
```
mvn clean package
```
It will generate a JAR file in the `target` folder with the following format `salesmanager-x.x.x-SNAPSHOT.jar`. </br>
To run the application, you can deploy the JAR file. For example:
```
java -jar target/salesmanager-0.0.6-SNAPSHOT.jar
```

# How to Demo
For easy demos without the need to stand up an Oracle database, an lightweight local [H2 database](https://www.h2database.com/html/main.html) (Oracle Mode) is setup by default in the `src/main/resources/application.properties` file. </br>
You can run the `./build_and_run_app.sh` helper shell script and interact with the web app on `localhost:8086`.
> You can easily use a [GitHub codespaces](https://docs.github.com/en/enterprise-cloud@latest/codespaces) with this repository. To set up your codespace, simply go to this repo [main page](https://github.com/octodemo/java-springboot-demo) --> Click **Code** --> Codespaces '+'. </br>


# Running the CI workflow
1. In order to run the workflow, you will need to [fork](https://docs.github.com/en/enterprise-cloud@latest/get-started/quickstart/fork-a-repo) this repo. </br>
2. Then, make sure to save the following environment variables in your repository secrets so you can successfully run the Database schema mirgations scripts (using [Liquibase](https://www.liquibase.com/) as the schema migration tool) on application startup and when running the tests. </br>

**Repository Secrets**
`LIQUIBASE_COMMAND_URL`
`LIQUIBASE_COMMAND_USERNAME`
`LIQUIBASE_COMMAND_PASSWORD`

### If you are going to use the same [dockerised service container](https://hub.docker.com/r/gvenzl/oracle-xe) in the CI job for dev, then the default values should be: </br>
`LIQUIBASE_COMMAND_URL` = `jdbc:oracle:thin:@oracle:1521/xe` </br>
`LIQUIBASE_COMMAND_USERNAME` = `SYSTEM` </br>
`LIQUIBASE_COMMAND_PASSWORD` = `ORACLE`

# Gitgraph Diagram - Developer Workflow
```mermaid
%%{init: { 'logLevel': 'debug', 'theme': 'base', 'gitGraph': {'showBranches': true}} }%%
      gitGraph
        commit
        branch hotfix
        checkout hotfix
        commit
        branch develop
        checkout develop
        commit id:"ash" tag:"abc"
        branch featureB
        checkout featureB
        commit type:HIGHLIGHT
        checkout main
        checkout hotfix
        commit type:NORMAL
        checkout develop
        commit type:REVERSE
        checkout featureB
        commit
        checkout main
        merge hotfix
        checkout featureB
        commit
        checkout develop
        branch featureA
        commit
        checkout develop
        merge hotfix
        checkout featureA
        commit
        checkout featureB
        commit
        checkout develop
        merge featureA
        branch release
        checkout release
        commit
        checkout main
        commit
        checkout release
        merge main
        checkout develop
        merge release
```
